README.md, before:

# kubespiffe

An experimental Kubernetes-native implementation of the [SPIFFE standard](https://spiffe.io/).

## Aims

`kubespiffe` should be able to:

* Issue SVIDs (both X.509 and JWT) to workloads on a Kubernetes cluster
* Manage SVID issuance with Kubernetes resources
* Support federation between two Kubernetes clusters

with the constraints:

* It should only have a single deployed component (i.e. a marked reduction in complexity from implementations like SPIRE, or `cert-manager` + `csi-driver-spiffe`)
* It should not have a completely disqualifying security posture

## Obtaining an SVID

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant W as Workload
    participant K8S as Kubernetes API
    participant KS as kubespiffed

    W->>K8S: Request PSAT (projected volume)
    K8S-->>W: Returns PSAT (JWT signed by Kubernetes)
    
    W->>KS: Present PSAT
    KS->>K8S: Request JWKS (using regular SAT and ca.crt)
    K8S-->>KS: Return JWKS
    KS->>KS: Validate PSAT with JWKS

    KS->>K8S: Get WorkloadRegistration (from kubenetes.io claim in PSAT)
    K8S-->>KS: WorkloadRegistration (if exists)

    Note over KS,W: TODO: SVID issuance & signing 
    KS-->>W: Issue SVID
```

```
2025/11/02 22:30:12 INFO ✅ Pod attested pod=workload-67c559dbb7-r5d5s namespace=default
2025/11/02 22:30:13 INFO ❌ Pod rejected error="failed to get registration for default/unattested-5b77f9d8fc-7r5m7: workloadregistrations.kubespiffe.io \"unattested\" not found"
```

Commit message:

Adds note on project status

README.md, after:

# kubespiffe

An experimental Kubernetes-native implementation of the [SPIFFE standard](https://spiffe.io/). This exploratory project is an ongoing work-in-progress, and should not be used for workload identity in any environment (least of all production Kubernetes clusters).

## Aims

`kubespiffe` should be able to:

* Issue SVIDs (both X.509 and JWT) to workloads on a Kubernetes cluster
* Manage SVID issuance with Kubernetes resources
* Support federation between two Kubernetes clusters

with the constraints:

* It should only have a single deployed component (i.e. a marked reduction in complexity from implementations like SPIRE, or `cert-manager` + `csi-driver-spiffe`)
* It should not have a completely disqualifying security posture

## Obtaining an SVID

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant W as Workload
    participant K8S as Kubernetes API
    participant KS as kubespiffed

    W->>K8S: Request PSAT (projected volume)
    K8S-->>W: Returns PSAT (JWT signed by Kubernetes)
    
    W->>KS: Present PSAT
    KS->>K8S: Request JWKS (using regular SAT and ca.crt)
    K8S-->>KS: Return JWKS
    KS->>KS: Validate PSAT with JWKS

    KS->>K8S: Get WorkloadRegistration (from kubenetes.io claim in PSAT)
    K8S-->>KS: WorkloadRegistration (if exists)

    Note over KS,W: TODO: SVID issuance & signing 
    KS-->>W: Issue SVID
```

```
2025/11/02 22:30:12 INFO ✅ Pod attested pod=workload-67c559dbb7-r5d5s namespace=default
2025/11/02 22:30:13 INFO ❌ Pod rejected error="failed to get registration for default/unattested-5b77f9d8fc-7r5m7: workloadregistrations.kubespiffe.io \"unattested\" not found"
```
